In Tolkien's works, poetry and singing (& runes) are magical. Items can contain magic, but
the source of magic started with vibration and song (Ainulindale).

"Fea" (spirit) drives the capacity of capability of a character. In some cases, fea is
gathered and used or expressed. In others, it is present, but hidden, and only revealed
when needed.

Races should get access to a "pool" of fea. Some activities (or exposure to it) can 
develop it. Some races should be immune to some of its effects.

Fea is akin to the "secret fire". "Shadow" would be its opposite/complement.

[Make singing and dancing] 
Template using tempo and specific moves (either solo, duo, or group)

Can sound files be incorporated into the actual play space? (like LOTRO)

Fea can be assigned to items. Would it be considered a type of "life force" that 
expresses itself a certain way through different races? [Shadow vs Fire]

Balrogs are an interesting entity because they are a combination of both [fire and shadow].

Human wraiths are shadow, fearing fire.

DAE (shadow)
FEA (spirit)  Feanaro (quenya)

fea(r)  [spirit] fear
hroa(r) [body]   roar
House and the Indweller

DAE  shadow
FAE  spirit  [both Sindarin]

-----
Remorts increase their available fea/dae

Why did the Barrow-wights come into existence? How would they interact in a world where 
Dunedain and elves live?

Could high level evil creatures have avenues that would allow them to move safely in their
faction areas (or between them)?

Underground passages? (Misty Mountains)
How would they cross rivers?
Immunity to light?
Adversely affected by sunlight?
Arnor, Carn Dum, Fornost (Dead Man's Dike)

Tom Bombadil? (and other oddities)
Have him help low level characters in and around the Barrow Downs
Could make a "deus ex machina" type character for low level help in high level areas

----
"Fea" could give a certain pool of available points that can be used in circumstances
based on race, activity, or even "ad hoc" events.

Fea must have a contrived opponent quality (such as "dae") for races that are under the 
sway of the shadow.
Fea should also have some sort of "root" quality that allows for the generation of the pool.
(Root fea can be used to make items of great worth.)
Root fea would help generate pooled fea points and determine overall capacity.
This could be built to some degree and randomized to some extent.

The concept is that fate has some amount of sway over an individual's life. Remorting
would allow for a "re-roll" of root fea in case people were not happy with the 
randomized outcome.

Pooled fea should take a long time to generate, and could be helped along with certain
activities (singing, dancing, smoking, spending time in specific areas).

Root fea could be assigned to "gifts" based on race that coincide with different
Valar. Sort of like "spirit traits", they would allow for fea to be used more in 
certain areas.

"Fea" comes from Iluvatar and can be aligned with the domains of the Valar.
"Dae" (or whatever the name will be) is aligned with and emanates from Melkor. All
twisted beings (orcs, trolls, wights, etc) have their fea usurped and replaced by
dae, which automatically aligns the creature with Melkor/Morgoth.
