Dunlendings live in a deforested area. Bows would be rare (lack of wood).
Slings and darts more common.
Hide/leather bucklers and shields.

Dunlendings are based on Celts/Picts.
Body painting?
Crows of Dunland (crebain)
What sort of landscape there?
Crows are scavengers, what do they scavenge?
Low shrubs? Heather/gorse
On the western face of mountains, should be relatively lush

Deforested areas are drier/more arid
Easter Island (?)

Herdsmen: goats & sheep / some cows, some horses?
Whips and crooks
More like Greek/Italian shepherds

----
The name "Wild Men" might be seen as "Men of the Wild", since that was
a location that corresponded to Dunland, not necessarily the same as
"Wild and Crazy Guys"

Could also indicate dress (Southron in Bree?)
----

Crows like to roost.
Crows in Dunland are big and intelligent, which means they probably have
lots of direct human contact. 
Parallel reference: Dale & thrushes

Enedwaith (& Dunland) were deforested by the Numenoreans, which the 
existing populace -hated-. It makes sense that Dunlendings would
congregate around any groupings of tall trees and protect them 
religiously. Ravens would roost there in flocks.

Wooden artifacts would be only given to clan leaders. (Bowls, beads, weapons)
Wool is used as the fabric for tents/roofs.

Dunlending villages at the top of the tallest hills. Tall pines sit at the
very top. Crows/crebain in pines. 
Roads wind up to the top and have reinforced stone walls built up to impede
invaders, which are normally wolves, orcs, or even other Dunlendings.
Pines can withstand burning (some types thrive on it), so lightning storms
are seen as divine.
Homes are built into hillsides, mimicking the smials of the hobbits. 
Priests/shamans live near/in the grove.

Herds of goats & sheep kept in the dells around the hills.

"Dun" meaning brown, as in skin color.
Exposed to afternoon sun, with little to no cover, tanned.

Dunlending homes built with sheets of wool & hides as roof covers or covers 
of doors and windows. Use existing caves and added to them with stones.

----
Check Fonstad's atlas to see about the composition of the hills west of
the Misty Mountains
----

Apse shapes to absorb heat in the fall/winter/spring months when the sun 
is lower, to reflect or shade during summer months (sun higher in the sky)

Apses are semi-circles or circles. Might have inspired round hobbit doors.

Hills as sacred spaces in the "proto-Dunlending" culture, as evidenced in 
the Barrow Downs.

Northern Dunland is not habited after War of the Ring (ROTK, Many Partings, p. 285)

Journey through a wood prior to meeting Saruman in the ROTK. So the land is 
reforested to some degree, maybe away from the rivers.
