Minimize the benefits of strong taking over weak areas
Maximize the benefits of strong protecting weak areas

Why would elves not assault Angmar and wipe out the threat 
nearest to Rivendell?
 - They don't have the resources?
 - More Elvish resources in Grey Havens? (Rivendell as distraction)
 - Rivendell is a way point, a fortress/garrison
 - Too hard to get in and out/transportation
 - More of a disruption of supply chains than a base of operations
   (Rivendell stops north-to-south transfer, allows east-to-west)
   
----
Set up specific pvp-style games to play, based on location
Siege weaponry?
Who stands against the high elves?
Why would a handful of Noldor and Sindar assault Angmar?
[The elves assaulted Angband]

Make "demonic" types (ur-trolls) that cannot stand light, keep them
pinned to one area (they are weakened outside it). Slow movement
speed
Cloak of darkness
Balrog (valarauko)
What is lesser than "Vala"?

----
Angmar can earn points for claiming (and holding) key areas
Invert the relationship, create diminishing returns the farther
away from the "home" one side plays.
Give equally bonused neutral areas that serve as points of command
within enemy territory.

[Hand-drawn diagram of evil base/good base grid]

Flags in each area, protected by flag NPCs

Mobile siege devices can be set up on platforms.
Towers can be built as pvp arenas
Some areas could be underground
Areas could be named.
----
Some areas are going to be of no value as a character increases in 
strength.
"Standing" (alignment) within a faction could be determined by 
consequences of actions with different factions
Non-reciprocal standing is possible (e.g. Dunedain & Breelanders)

----
Mazes and how to get lost (and unlost)

"A silvery trail leads east"
This could be a breadcrumb used by an elf to pass easily through a maze.
Other races may not be able to see it. (For goblins, could be a smell)

Mazes could inhibit following:
"The deer slips into the brush" rather than "The deer bounds east"
