Most all items come from crafting, somewhere.

Monsters or dungeons should drop reagents or unique mats, not unique items
 or trade items (trade x for item y)
 
Should there be a "legendary item" type system in place for the sake of
 customization?

Resources should be the primary concern, not just killing stuff to get
 a specific item.

Current MUD play has small quest areas that are open to general public.
Why not create larger "fortress" areas that require decent sized groups
to infiltrate and overcome? Cirith Ungol is a good example of a tower
that is under-utilized.

MMO's use instanced dungeons---could do the same thing to some degree, at least 
in the sense of skills needed to earn a type of reward.

Each guild should have a rival testing place
- Warrior types (armour, shields, defenders) should have a place to test their skills.
- Thief/Stealth types (light armour, sneaky, traps) should have another type of place.

Factions should contain different guilds that maximize the faction's strengths
and give them an edge over their enemies.
The guilds should be a combination of school and marketplace.

This will largely define the gameplay as much as the makeup of individual players.
What guilds will define each faction?

Hobbits
 - Farming and Cooking/Brewing
 - Woodcraft (Bounders/Shirriffs)
   Bowyers  Moving Quietly
 - Pipe weed
 
Dwarves
 - Mining and smithing
 - Fighting / Defending
 - Mithril
 
----

Each faction will need a special combat and crafting guild. Each guild would
be particular to the faction and offer a variety of class-based approaches.
A combat guild could teach sneaking as well as armour, healing as well as 
attack and defense.
The "guild" concept would really just be a way of providing a social "gate"
and maintaining good standing within the faction. The training could be 
accomplished by different guild trainers.
So a hobbit could start training within the hobbit combat guild. Then faction
with the dwarves and join the dwarf combat guild to continue his combat
advancement. Factions would have to be aligned or allied to translate
skill and xp.

Requests to join "remort" guilds (more advanced races) would just be laughed 
off. "A hobbit showed up in Rivendell to learn the arms and armor of the 
Noldor. The guards laughed and shook their heads."

